---
title: UML
title_full: Unified Modeling Language and Analysis
description: UML for Software Architecture and Design.
tags:
  - OMSCS
---

## Overview and History

### UML Definition
A language for specifying, visualizing, constructing, documenting
- the artifacts of software systems
- business modelling
- non-software systems.


## Predecessor three amigos

- [Object Modeling Technique(OMT) by General Electric, James Rumbaugh](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-modeling_technique)
    - [Book](https://www.amazon.com/Object-Oriented-Modeling-Design-James-Rumbaugh/dp/0136298419)
  - class model diagram - structural aspects
  - state chart diagram - behavioral aspects
  - data flow diagram - functional aspects
- [Booch by Grady Booch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Booch_method#:~:text=The%20Booch%20method%20is%20a,a%20set%20of%20recommended%20practices)
- [Object-oriented software engineering (OOSE) by Ivar Jacobson](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object-oriented_programming)


## UML "unified" achieves

- It ends many of differences
- It unifieds different systems's perspectives
  - Business vs software
  - Development phases 
  - internal concepts.

## UML usage

- design is concerned with the solution to that problem.
- analysis is concerned with the problem being solved.


This courses will discuss three or four diagrams.

## Review of UML and views of a model

The following diagrams.
- Structural diagram shows pieces of the system and the relationships among them.
  - Class 
- behavior diagram concerns the executions of the system.
  - Use case 
  - statechart 
  - activity 
  - interaction :
    - sequence 
    - collaboration 
- implementation 
  - component 
  - deployment 
### Class Model Diagram and Object Diagram

- Dependencies: dashed line with an arrowhead
- Associations: solid line without arrowheads
- Aggregation embellishment to the association: solid line with a diamond.
- Generalization: a solid line with triangle.

The only difference with Class Model Diagram:
Object diagram contains title "className:instance name"

### Composite Structure Diagrams

### Component Diagram

### Deployment Diagram

### Packages Diagram

### Profile Diagram

### Use case Diagram

### Context Diagram

### Sequence Diagram

### Communication Diagram

### Activity Diagram

### Interaction Overview Diagram

### Timing Diagram

### State Diagram

## Object Constraint Language(OCL)